Born in Barranquilla, Colombia, Hansy L. Better Barraza, received her first professional Bachelors of Architecture degree from Cornell University (1997) and a Masters of Architecture in Urban Design from the Harvard Design School (2000).  Hansy is a LEED Accredited Professional and a Registered Architect in Massachusetts, Rhode Island and New York.  She is NCARB certified to allow for reciprocity in other states.
As an Associate Professor of Architecture at the Rhode Island School of Design and as well as a practitioner, Hansy offers an intense focus on design methods that embrace social responsibility as she works with clients to reach their goals for every project. Hansy’s work fuses handcraft and digital fabrication techniques to bridge the advancement of the means and methods of construction with an awareness to the working of materials that ties it to a specific culture, environment, or manufacturing process.
Hansy is currently serving on the Commonwealth of Massachusetts Division of Capital Asset Management (DCAM) Designer Selection Board Panel. She also serves on the Board of Directors as Secretary for the Boston Society of Architects and is on the editorial board for the Critical Productive Journal examining the intersection of architecture, culture and theory. Past appointments include Trustee for the Boston Architectural College, Commissioner of Education and Research for the Boston Society of Architects and member of the Roslindale Village Main Streets (RVMS) Design Committee. She is a recipient of a grant from the Graham Foundation for Advanced Studies in the Fine Arts in support of her forthcoming book, “Where are the Utopian Visionaries? Architecture of Social Exchange” being published by Periscope Ltd. and distributed worldwide by Prestel Press. In addition, Hansy served as a Visiting Critic at Cornell University, Lecturer at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Northeastern University. She has been a guest speaker at Columbia University, Harvard University, Yale and many other institutions around the country.
Most recently, the Boston Business Journal and El Planeta highlighted Hansy as one of 20 Hispanic executives making a difference in Boston.