Patricia D. Gruits, LEED AP, is an Associate at KVA MATx. Patricia Gruits received her Bachelor of Science in Architecture and her Master's in Architecture from the University of Michigan, where she received a thesis award for her project on architecture and weaving tectonics. Ms. Gruits joined KVA MATx in 2006, after two years of professional practice working in Michigan on the design of new schools.  Ms. Gruits brings to KVA her experience in design innovation and programming for school and university facilities, as well as her design expertise working with new and traditional materials in architecture.  At KVA MATx, Patricia Gruits has contributed to the design development of the Portable Light Project, an internationally recognized global initiative for renewable light and clean energy and is actively involved in KVA's material research and design initiatives.Ms. Gruits has served as Project Designer on many of KVA's award winning projects that engage material ecology and performance, including the digitally fabricated stone and brick façades at the new Law School at the University of Pennsylvania, the New York City East River Ferry Project (Progressive Architecture Award, NYC Municipal Art Commission Award for Design Excellence) and the Soft House project, (AIA Research Award, First Prize IBA Smart Materials Housing, Germany).  As Project Manager at KVA, Patricia Gruits has led the design of the Alabama Symphony Orchestra Performance Pavilion for the Railroad Reservation Park in Birmingham, Alabama; the expansion of the Beaver Country Day School in Massachusetts; and the renovation and restoration project for Le Corbusier's Carpenter Center at Harvard University.Ms. Gruits work has been featured in journals of architecture and design as well as BBC World News.  Ms. Gruits lectures and participates in public symposia on digital materiality, fabrication and design innovation. She has taught at Northeastern University and served on design juries at the University of Michigan, RISD and MIT.