Veit Kugel, Dipl. Ing. is a Senior Associate at KVA MATx.  He received the Master of Architecture and Urban Design degree from the University of Stuttgart, Germany, completed an internship with the office of Anton Ummenhofer Architekturbüro in Stuttgart.  Kugel received a Fulbright Fellowship and a scholarship from the German Academic Exchange Service DAAD (Deutscher Akademischer Austausch Dienst) to attend the Masters of Architecture program at the Southern Californian Institute of Architecture (SCI-ARC) in Los Angeles where he was graduated in 1997.  Kugel joined Kennedy & Violich Architecture 1998 during which time he was Project Designer for the Nartonis Residence, the Broadway Artist Studios (Public Works Award, National Endowment for the Arts), and the US Headquarters for Wall AG. As Project Architect Kugel has led teams of designers and consulting engineers on large scale complex building renovations including the 250,000sf School of the Art Institute of Chicago (1st Place competition) and the Rhode Island School of Design's new 70,000sf Center for Integrative Technologies building in historic downtown Providence. Kugel was instrumental in KVA's 1st place competition entry for Clemson University's Center for Architecture in Charleston, SC, and has provided Project Management for the 34th Street Ferry Terminal along New York City's East River , a $12 million sustainable multi-modal transportation project commissioned by New York's Economic Development Corporation (Progressive Architecture Award/NY Art Commission Award) and the award-winning Human Modeling Simulation Laboratory project at the University of Pennsylvania's School of Engineering and Applied Science. Kugel is currently Project Architect on the 45,000 square foot University of Pennsylvania Law School Building and a Smart Materials Housing Project in Hamburg, Germany, funded by the Germany's Internationale Bauaustellung's (IBA), both results of 1st Place competition entries by KVA.  Kugel brings to KVA his skills at working with large and complex building projects; an acute sensibility for design, energy conservation, and methods of construction; and an intelligent approach to the integration of new technologies on the design of public and educational institutions.  Kugel has presented his work at numerous conferences in the US and Europe, has taught at Harvard University's Graduate School of Design, and co-authored the book Bugs, Fish, Floors And Ceiling, Luminous Bodies and the Contemporary Problem of Material Presence (Harvard University, Graduate School of Design).